>> Woodruff: THE HEAD OF THE
SECRET SERVICE IN THE LINE OF
FIRE OF TOUGH QUESTIONS FROM
LAWMAKERS OVER FAILURES TO
SECURE THE WHITE HOUSE AND
PROTECT THE FIRST FAMILY.
OORUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF PROTESTERS
CONTINUE TO PEACEFULLY FILL THE
STREETS OF HONG KONG, CALLING
FOR MORE FREEDOMS FROM CHINA AND
DEFYING GOVERNMENT DEMANDS TO
DISBAND.
THEN, VIOLIN VIRTUOSO JOSHUA
BELL RETURNS TO PERFORM AT A
WASHINGTON, D.C. TRAIN STATION,
BUT THIS TIME, PEOPLE TAKE
NOTICE.
PLUS, IN CALIFORNIA, AN
IMPOSSIBLE CHOICE FOR THE
FAMILIES OF PATIENTS ON LIFE
SUPPORT WITH LITTLE CHANCE FOR
RECOVERY.
>> I REALLY BELIEVE THAT IF MY
WIFE COULD ANSWER, "DO YOU WANT
TO STAY ALIVE, OR DO YOU WANT TO
DIE?"
I BELIEVE THAT SHE WOULD SAY
THAT SHE WANTS TO STAY ALIVE.
I BELIEVE THAT.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: WE BEGIN WITH
BREAKING NEWS THIS EVENING:
FOR THE FIRST TIME, EBOLA HAS
BEEN DIAGNOSED INSIDE THE UNITED
STATES.
OFFICIALS AT THE CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION
MADE THE ANNOUNCEMENT LATE THIS
AFTERNOON IN ATLANTA.
A PATIENT WAS INFECTED IN
LIBERIA AND IT IS NOW IN A
DALLAS HOSPITAL.
>> IT IS CERTAINLY POSSIBLE THAT
SOMEONE WHO HAD CONTACT WITH
THIS INDIVIDUAL FARNLGLY MEMBER
OR OTHER INDIVIDUAL, COULD
DEVELOP EBOLA IN THE COMING
WEEKS, BUT THERE IS NO DOUBT IN
MY MIND THAT WE WILL STOP IT
HERE.
>> Woodruff: U.S. HOSPITALS
HAVE TREATED SEVERAL OTHER
PATIENTS WHO CONTRACTED EBOLA IN
WEST AFRICA BUT WERE DIAGNOSED
BEFORE RETURNING HOME.
THERE HAS BEEN ANOTHER BREECH OF
PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY, THIS TIME
IN ATLANTA.
"THE WASHINGTON POST" REPORTS A
SECURITY GUARD, WITH A GUN, GOT
ON AN ELEVATOR WITH PRESIDENT
OBAMA DURING HIS VISIT TWO WEEK
AGO.
IT TURNED OUT THE MAN ALSO HAD
THREE  CONVICTIONS FOR ASSAULT
AND BATTERY.
A SUPERVISOR FIRED HIM ON THE
SPOT, AND THAT'S WHEN AGENTS
DISCOVERED HE WAS ARMED.
>> Woodruff: LAWMAKERS FROM BOTH
PARTIES WENT AFTER THE HEAD OF
THE SECRET SERVICE TODAY, OVER
SECURITY BREACHES AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
JULIA PIERSON WAS GRILLED FOR
THREE AND A HALF HOURS, AND SAID
SHE TAKES FULL RESPONSIBILITY.
>> Woodruff: PIERSON HAD HARDLY
SETTLED INTO HER SEAT BEFORE
HOUSE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE CHAIR
DARRELL ISSA BORE IN.
THIS FAILURE HAS ONCE AGAIN
TESTED THE TRUST OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE IN THE SECRET SERVICE, A
TRUST WE CLEARLY DEPEND ON TO
PROTECT THE PRESIDENT.
THE "FAILURE" IN QUESTION CAME
WHEN IRAQ WAR VETERAN OMAR
GONZALEZ JUMPED THE WHITE HOUSE
FENCE ON SEPTEMBER 19TH AND MADE
IT WELL INSIDE THE MANSION.
TODAY, PIERSON, A 30-YEAR SECRET
SERVICE VETERAN, ISSUED A MEA
CULPA.
>> IT IS CLEAR THAT OUR SECURITY
PLAN WAS NOT EXECUTED PROPERLY.
THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE.
AND I TAKE FULL RESPONSIBILITY,
WHAT HAPPENED IS UNACCEPTABLE
AND IT WILL NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S PUBLICLY
KNOWN ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED HAS
CHANGED DRAMATICALLY IN THE
ELEVEN DAYS SINCE THE INTRUSION.
THE SECRET SERVICE INITIALLY
SAID GONZALEZ SPRINTED ACROSS
THE FRONT LAWN AND PAST A GUARD
BOOTH AND DOGS, BUT WAS STOPPED
JUST AFTER ENTERING THE NORTH
PORTICO DOOR.
IT'S NOW KNOWN THAT IN FACT, HE
CONTINUED TO RUN THROUGH THE
CENTRAL HALL AND INTO THE ORNATE
EAST ROOM BEFORE HE WAS TACKLED
BY AN OFF-DUTY SECRET SERVICE
AGENT, WHO, IT TURNS OUT, JUST
HAPPENED TO BE THERE.
THE SECRET SERVICE HAS SAID
AGENTS SHOWED "TREMENDOUS
RESTRAINT AND DISCIPLINE" IN
APPREHENDING GONZALEZ.
BUT REPUBLICAN JASON CHAFFETZ OF
UTAH ARGUED TODAY THAT'S NOTHING
TO BE PROUD OF.
>> I WANT IT TO BE CRYSTAL
CLEAR.
YOU MAKE A RUN OR A DASH AT THE
WHITE HOUSE, WE'RE GOING TO TAKE
YOU DOWN.
I WANT OVERWHLEMING FORCE.
WOULD YOU DISAGREE WITH ME?
>> I DO WANT ALL OUR OFFICERS TO
USE APPROPRIATE FORCE FOR
SOMEONE TRYING TO BREACH THE
WHITE HOUSE
>> Woodruff: THERE WERE ALSO
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHY AGENTS
FAILED TO TAKE ACTION AFTER
VIRGINIA POLICE FOUND GUNS AND A
MAP WITH THE WHITE HOUSE CIRCLED
IN GONZALEZ' CAR, IN JULY.
MASSACHUSETTS DEAT
TIERNEY:
>> YOU DIDN'T TAKE ANY ACTION.
YOU DIDN'T HAVE HIM ARRESTED.
YOU DIDN'T HAVE HIM CONTINUE TO
BE UNDER OBSERVATION, DID YOU?
>> MR. GONZALEZ AT THE TIME
DENIED ANY INTEREST OR ANY
INTENT TO HARM ANYONE.
HE INDICATED THAT HIS
INFORMATION RELATIVE TO THE MAP
IN HIS CAR WAS GIVEN TO HIM BY
ANOTHER INDIVIDUAL WHO HAD
RECOMMENDED PLACES IN
WASHINGTON, DC, TO SIGHT SEE.
>> Woodruff: PIERSON WAS ALSO
ASKED TO EXPLAIN REVELATIONS IN
THE "WASHINGTON POST" THAT IT
TOOK THE SECRET SERVICE FOUR
DAYS TO REALIZE A GUNMAN HIT THE
WHITE HOUSE SEVEN TIMES BACK IN
2011.
>> Woodruff: MARYLAND DEMOCRAT
ELIJAH CUMMINGS CITED ONE OF
SEVERAL AGENTS WHO DECIDED
AGAINST CONTRADICTING THEIR
BOSSES' VIEW THAT THE SHOTS WERE
NOT DIRECTED AT THE WHITE
HOUSE...
>> SHE DID NOT CHALLENGE HER
SUPERVISOR FOR FEAR OF BEING
CRITICIZED.
SHE LATER TOLD INVESTIGATORS.
NOW, DIRECTOR PIERSON, AS A
FORMER AGENT AND
NOW DIRECTOR PIERSON, AS A
FORMER FIELD AGENT, AND AS THE
HEAD OF THE AGENCY -- THAT HAS
TO CONCERN YOU TREMENDOUSLY, IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> YES, SIR.
IT DOES.
IT'S UNACCEPTABLE.
BUT ANOTHER MASSACHUSETTS
DEMOCRAT -- STEPHEN LYNCH --
CHARGED PIERSON'S OVERALL
RESPONSES WERE SIMPLY EVASIVE.
>> I WISH TO GOD YOU PROTECTED
THE WHITE HOUSE LIKE YOU'RE
PROTECTING YOUR REPUTATION HERE
>> LET ME BE CLEAR, THE UNITED
STATES SECRET SERVICE DOES NOT
TAKE THIS LIGHTLY.
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT THAT'S MY
POINT.
AS A CASUAL OBSERVER TO WHAT HAS
HAPPENED HERE, I DON'T THINK THE
SECRET SERVICE IS TAKING THEIR
DUTY TO PROTECT THE AMERICAN
PRESIDENT AND HIS FAMILY AT THE
WHITE HOUSE.
I DON'T THINK YOU'RE TAKING IT
SERIOUSLY.
>> Woodruff: STILL, THE WHITE
HOUSE SAID AGAIN TODAY THE
PRESIDENT IS CONFIDENT THE
SECRET SERICE WILL IMPLEMENT ANY
REFORMS NEEDED.
THE ACCUSED FENCE-JUMPER, OMAR
GONZALEZ, WAS INDICTED TODAY ON
FEDERAL AND STATE CHARGES.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
HOSTED INDIA'S NEW PRIME
MINISTER NARENDRA MODI IN A BID
TO REPAIR STRAINS IN RELATIONS
BETWEEN THEIR NATIONS.
THE TWO LEADERS FOCUSED HEAVILY
ON RESOLVING TRADE DISPUTES AND
IMPROVING ECONOMIC TIES.
AND THE PRESIDENT PRAISED MODI'S
POLICIES.
>> I'VE BEEN IMPRESSED WITH THE
PRIME MINISTER'S INTEREST IN NOT
ONLY ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF THE
POOREST OF THE POOR IN INDIA AND
REVITALIZING THE ECONOMY THERE,
BUT ALSO ITS DETERMINATION TO
MAKE SURE THAT INDIA IS SERVING
AS A MAJOR POWER THAT CAN HELP
BRING ABOUT PEACE AND SECURITY
FOR THE ENTIRE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: MODI WAS ONCE
BARRED FROM ENTERING THE
U.S. AFTER HINDUS KILLED MORE
THAN 1,000 MUSLIMS IN THE STATE
WHERE HE WAS GOVERNOR.
ACROSS CENTRAL IRAQ, CAR
BOMBINGS AND OTHER ATTACKS
KILLED AT LEAST 47 PEOPLE TODAY,
MOST OF THEM SHIITES.
WHILE TO THE WEST, IRAQI AND
SYRIAN KURDS DROVE "ISLAMIC
STATE" MILITANTS FROM A KEY
BORDER CROSSING INTO SYRIA, WITH
HELP FROM SUNNI FIGHTERS.
IN SYRIA, KURDISH FIGHTERS AND
THEIR ALLIES BATTLED TO HOLD
KOBANI, NEAR THE TURKISH BORDER.
THE CONFLICT HAS SPARKED AN
EXODUS, AS THE UNITED NATIONS
HEARD TODAY.
>> OVER THE PAST TWO WEEKS ISIL
FORCES HAVE ADVANCED IN NORTHERN
ALEPPO AND OVER 160,000 PEOPLE,
MOSTLY WOMEN AND CHILDREN, FLED
INTO TURKEY IN JUST A FEW DAYS.
THEIR FEAR WAS SO GREAT THAT
MANY PEOPLE CROSSED HEAVILY
MINED FIELDS TO SEEK REFUGE.
>> Woodruff: ALSO TODAY, BRITISH
JETS LAUNCHED THEIR FIRST
ATTACKS AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE
TARGETS IN IRAQ.
THEY JOINED THE LATEST ROUND OF
STRIKES BY U.S. JETS.
THE WORLD HAS LOST HALF ITS
WILDLIFE POPULATION SINCE 1970.
THAT STARK FINDING TODAY, FROM
THE WORLD WILDLIFE FUND.
IT REPORTED A 52% DECLINE,
CENTERED IN SEVERAL THOUSANDS OF
SPECIES, AND IT SAID HUMANS ARE
LARGELY TO BLAME, THROUGH
FISHING, HUNTING AND POLLUTION.
MOST OF THE NEW WILDLIFE LOSSES
WERE IN LATIN AMERICA.
CALIFORNIA WILL IMPOSE THE FIRST
STATE-WIDE BAN OF SINGLE-USE
PLASTIC BAGS.
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN SIGNED THE
LEGISLATION TODAY.
IT'S DESIGNED TO CUT DOWN ON
BAGS GETTING INTO WATERWAYS.
THE BAN APPLIES TO LARGE GROCERY
STORES NEXT YEAR, AND EXPANDS TO
SMALLER STORES LATER.
MORE THAN 100 AMERICAN CITIES
ALREADY HAVE SUCH BANS.
A DECISION TODAY BY THE FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION WILL
BE WELCOME NEWS FOR MANY SPORTS
FANS.
THE F.C.C. VOTED TO DROP A
DECADES-OLD RULE THAT BANS
SHOWING HOMETOWN GAMES ON T.V,
IF THEY'RE NOT SELLOUTS.
IT WAS MEANT TO PROTECT TICKET
SALES, ESPECIALLY OF N.F.L.
GAMES, BUT THE F.C.C. FOUND THE
RULE IS OUTDATED.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 28
POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW 17,043.
THE NASDAQ FELL 12 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,493.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED
FIVE, TO 1972.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR
PROTESTS SWELL IN HONG KONG,
DEMANDING MORE DEMOCRACY;
AFGHANISTAN AGREES TO KEEP
THOUSANDS OF AMERICAN TROOPS IN
THE COUNTRY;
FEARS OF ANOTHER VOLCANO
ERUPTION RATTLE JAPAN;
VIOLIN VIRTUOSO JOSHUA BELL
BUSKS FOR COMMUTERS IN
WASHINGTON DC;
MISSISSIPPI'S SENATE RACE
DIVIDES THE REPUBLICAN PARTY;
AND THE PAINFUL DECISIONS FACING
FAMILIES WITH LOVED ONES ON LIFE
SUPPORT.
>> Woodruff: PROTESTS GREW IN
HONG KONG, AND BROUGHT PARTS OF
THE CITY TO A STANDSTILL FOR A
FIFTH DAY.
AND THERE WAS NO SIGN THE PRO-
DEMOCRACY STUDENT-LED
DEMONSTRATIONS WILL STOP ANYTIME
SOON.
LUCY WATSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS HAS THIS REPORT
FROM HONG KONG.
>> Reporter: THERE IS LITTLE
THAT THIS HUGE CROWD WON'T
ENDURE.
THE UMBRELLA REVOLUTION AND THE
FIGHT FOR FREEDOM IS
UNRELENTING.
IT'S AN UNPRECEDENTED DISPLAY OF
DEFIANCE, PEOPLE IN EVERY
DIRECTION TAKING OVER A CITY.
THERE IS STRENGTH IN NUMBERS BUT
ALSO IN INDIVIDUALS.
THREE DAYS AGO WAS AN ORDINARY
STUDENT, NOW HE'S ROUSING AN
HISTORIC CROWD.
>> EVERYBODY PUT YOUR CELL PHONE
LIGHTS ON.
>> TO FULFILL OUR DREAM WE'LL
SACRIFICE EVERYTHING, THEY SING.
THEY WANT THEIR CURRENT LEADER
TO STEP DOWN AND ELECT ANOTHER
FREELY DEMANDS THEY REFUSE TO
GIVE UP ON.
>> NEVER SEE THE END BECAUSE
THIS FIGHT IS FOREVER.
>> Reporter: THIS IS A POWERFUL
BODY OF PEOPLE WITH A LIFE OF
ITS OWN NOBODY QUITE KNOWS WHAT
DIRECTION IT WILL TAKE NEXT.
BUT THE HONG KONG GOVERNMENT
WON'T TOLERATE THIS MASS CIVIL
DISOBEDIENCE FOR LONG, IT'S NOW
A TEST OF NERVES.
AND AS CHINA'S PRESIDENT
PREPARES FOR THE COUNTRY'S
NATIONAL DAY THIS IS A DIRECT
CHALLENGE TO HIS GOVERNANCE.
THEY WERE NOT EXPECTING THE
OPPOSITION TO BECOME WHAT IS NOW
A POPULAR UPRISING.
THEN THEY WORRY THAT PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO IMITATE THIS.
THREATS THE COMMUNIST PARTY IS
UNLIKELY TO RESPOND WELL TO.
BUT WHILE THERE IS PERSISTENCE
THERE IS HOPE HERE.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON WHAT
PROVOKED THESE PROTESTERS AND
HOW MAINLAND CHINA IS LIKELY TO
RESPOND, WE TURN TO IAN BREMMER.
HE'S THE PRESIDENT AND FOUNDER
OF EURASIA GROUP, A POLITICAL
RISK RESEARCH AND CONSULTING
COMPANY.
IAN BREMMER, WELCOME TO THE
PROGRAM.
ARE THESE PROTESTS
UNPRECEDENTED?
HAS CHINA EVER SEEN ANYTHING
LIKE THIS?
AND I GUESS TIANANMEN COMES TO
MIND.
>> YES.
TIANANMEN'S THE LAST TIME WE'VE
SEEN THIS SORT OF THING WITHIN
CHINA ITSELF.
CERTAINLY HONG KONG THERE HAS
BEEN NOTHING LIKE THIS SINCE THE
HANOVER FROM GREAT IN
1997.
MOST IMPORTANTLY IT IS BY FAR
THE FIRST SERIOUS CHALLENGE
DOMESTICALLY TO THE PRESIDENT.
IT REALLY IS DIRECTLY A QUESTION
OF THE LEGITIMACY AND THE
SUPPORT OF WHAT'S SO FAR BEEN A
VERY POPULAR, VERY CHARISMATIC
AND VERY TRANSFORMATIVE RULE.
>> HOW MUCH OF A CHALLENGE IS IT
TO HIM AND TO THE REGIME, THE
GOVERNMENT IN BEIJING?
THESE STUDENTS HAVE BEEN THERE
FOR FIVE DAYS.
THEY DON'T SHOW ANY SIGNS OF
BACKING DOWN.
>> NO, IN FACT, TOMORROW, AS
YOU'VE HEARD, YOU HAVE THE
NATIONAL DAY.
THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER OF
CALLS FOR DEMONSTRATIONS IN
SUPPORT OF THE OCCUPIED CENTRAL
MOVEMENT, NOT JUST IN THE UNITED
STATES AND IN THE DEVELOPED
COUNTRIES, BUT WE ALSO SEE THAT
THEY'RE LIKELY TO HAPPEN IN
MACAU.
THEY'RE GOING TO HAPPEN IN
TAIPEI AND TAIWAN.
AND IT WOULD NOT SURPRISE ME AT
ALL, DESPITE THE FACT THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT HAS REALLY
TRIED THE CRACK DOWN ON ANYONE
SEARCHING RELEVANT SOCIAL MEDIA
TERMS AROUND THE HONG KONG
PROTESTS WITHIN MAINLAND CHINA
TO, SEE SOME FORMS OF SYMPATHY
THERE.
THAT'S ONE OF THE REASONS WHY I
THINK THE PRESIDENT, WHO HAS
BEEN VERY WILLING TO ENGAGE IN
POLICIES OF ECONOMIC
TRANSFORMATION ON THE MAINLAND,
BUT HAS HAD NO INTEREST IN
POLITICAL REFORM, THIS IS NOT A
GLOUCESTER NOS GUY, HE'S VERY
UNLIKELY TO SHOW ANY FLEXIBILITY
WHATSOEVER, AS IS THE HONG
CONGRESS GOVERNMENT IN
RESPONDING TO THESE PROTESTS.
OCCUPY CENTRAL HAS NOW BECOME
OCCUPY HONG KONG.
AS OF TOMORROW IT'S LIKELY TO
BECOME OCCUPY LARGER THAN THAT.
AND IF LOCAL POLICE THROUGH
THREAT AND SELECTIVE ARRESTS ARE
UNABLE TO DISPERSE THESE
DEMONSTRATIONS, WE'RE LIKELY TO
SEE A VERY SIGNIFICANT VIOLENT
CRACKDOWN.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MEAN
BY THAT?
IF THESE PROTESTERS NOT GOING
AWAY AND THE CENTRALVE
ISN'T GOING TO BEND, WHAT DOES
THAT MEAN?
>> WELL, THE INITIAL STEP COMES
FROM HONG KONG ITSELF.
WE'VE SEEN THE HONG KONG
LEADERSHIP COMPLETELY REFUSING
TO EVEN MEET WITH THE LEADERS OF
THE OCCUPY CENTRAL MOVEMENT,
NEVER MIND BROOK ANY COMPROMISE
ABOUT WHAT SUFFRAGE IN SELECTION
OF A CHIEF EXECUTIVE IN HONG
KONG HIGH LOOK LIKE IN 2017.
I THINK THE NEXT STEPS CLEARLY
INVOLVE THE POLICE, WHO HAVE
BEEN RELATIVELY QUIET OVER THE
LAST COUPLE DAYS.
THEY CAN CERTAINLY TAKE STEPS TO
TRY TO REMOVE WHO THEY SEE AS
THE RINGLEADERS OF THAT
MOVEMENT.
AND AFTER THEY'VE DONE THAT,
THEY CAN TRY TO PRESSURE THE
BROADER GROUP, GIVE THEM A
COUPLE OUTS, LET THEM DISPERSE
ONCE THEIR LEAD VERSE BEEN TAKEN
INTO CUSTODY.
BUT AGAIN, IF WE CONTINUE TO SEE
THIS TYPE OF MOBILIZATION AMONG
THE STUDENTS THAT POSES A MUCH
GREATER THREAT TO THE LEGITIMACY
OF THE CHINESE ENTERPRISE.
AND TO THEIR POWER, THEIR
EXERTION OF POWER IN HONG KONG,
I THINK THE RESPONSE GOES BEYOND
JUST HONG KONG POLICE.
THEN THE PEOPLE'S LIBERATION
ARMY DOES INDEED COME INCH THEY
HAVE GARRISONS IN HONG KONG.
I SUSPECT THEY WOULD BE USED.
CERTAINLY THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY CAN COMPLAIN, BUT
THERE IS NO POTENTIAL OF
SANCTIONS ON PUNISHMENT BEING
EXERTED AGAINST THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT FOR WHAT THEY DO
INTERNALLY IN HONG KONG.
THIS IS NOT LIKE RUSSIA VERSUS
UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: VERY QUICKLY, YOU
MENTIONED THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
BRITAIN'S PRIME MINISTER CAMERON
PROTESTING TODAY.
OF COURSE, THEY PREVIOUSLY HELD
HONG KONG.
YOU'RE SAYING THERE'S NOTHING
ANYBODY ON THE OUTSIDE CAN DO?
>> OH, I THINK THAT CAMERON AND
OBAMA WILL DO A GREAT
IMPERSONATION OF BAN KI-MOON.
I THINK THEY WILL EXPRESS A
GREAT DEAL OF CONCERN OVER WHAT
HAPPENS FOR HONG KONG.
BUT IF YOU ASK ME, ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT THE POTENTIAL OF
SANCTIONING THEM, I'D WANT TO GO
BACK TO WHAT FORMER SECRETARY OF
STATE HILLARY CLINTON SAID,
WHICH IS IT'S GENERALLY NOT A
GOOD IDEA TO CRITICIZE YOUR
BANKER ON HUMAN RIGHTS.
IT'S GOING TO BE VERY, VERY
DIFFICULT FOR ANYTHING MORE THAN
WORDS IN RESPONSE TO WHAT'S
HAPPENING ON THE GROUND IN HONG
KONG.
>> Woodruff: IAN BREMMER WITH
THE EURASIA GROUP, THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: THE UNITED STATES
AND AFGHANISTAN SIGNED A
BILATERAL SECURITY AGREEMENT
TODAY, WHICH WILL KEEP A LIMITED
NUMBER OF AMERICAN TROOPS IN THE
COUNTRY.
THE LONG TERM DEAL WILL ALLOW
U.S. AND NATO SOLDIERS TO CARRY
OUT COUNTER-TERRORISM MISSIONS
AND SUPPORT AFGHAN FORCES.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
HAS THE DETAILS.
>> Warner: THE SIGNING ENDED
MONTHS OF UNCERTAINTY OVER WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN THE U.S.-LED
INTERNATIONAL MISSION OFFICIALLY
ENDS, DECEMBER 31ST.
U.S. AMBASSADOR JAMES
CU
>> THE UNITED STATES VALUES ITS
RELATIONSHIP WITH AFGHANISTAN
AND THE AFGHAN PEOPLE, WE ARE
COMMITTED TO A BETTER FUTURE FOR
AFGHANISTAN.
OUR CLOSE DEFENSE AND SECURITY
>> Warner: MORE THAN 2,200
AMERICAN TROOPS HAVE DIED IN THE
AFGHAN WAR SINCE 2001.
AT THEIR PEAK, U.S. FORCES STOOD
AT 100,000 IN 2011.
THE NEW DEAL WILL LEAVE 9,800
AMERICANS AND ABOUT 2,000 OTHER
N.A.T.O. FORCES THERE, TO TRAIN
AND ASSIST AFGHAN UNITS.
NEWLY INAUGURATED PRESIDENT
ASHRAF GHANI SAID TODAY AFGHAN
SOVEREIGNTY WON'T BE
COMPROMISED.
>> ( translated ): THE
INTERNATIONAL FORCES ARE NOT
ALLOWED TO ENTER IN OUR HOLY
SITES AND OUR MOSQUES.
INTEGRITY OF OUR LIFE AND HOUSES
WILL BE SAFE BASED ON OUR
CONSTITUTIONAL VALUES.
>> Warner: FOR MONTHS, FORMER
PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI REFUSED
TO SIGN THE ACCORD.
BOTH GHANI AND HIS PRESIDENTIAL
RIVAL, ABDULLAH ABDULLAH,
SUPPORTED IT, BUT THEIR DRAWN-
OUT ELECTION DISPUTE PREVENTED
ITS SIGNING.
DURING THOSE MONTHS OF
UNCERTAINTY, THE TALIBAN STEPPED
UP ATTACKS AND REGAINED
TERRITORY IN THE NORTH AND
SOUTH.
>> Woodruff: SO HOW IMPORTANT IS
THIS SECURITY AGREEMENT?
JEFFREY BROWN EXPLORES THAT.
>> Brown: AND JOINING ME IS
BARNETT RUBIN, FORMER SENIOR
ADVISER TO THE SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE FOR AFGHANISTAN
AND PAKISTAN AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
HE'S NOW DIRECTOR OF THE "CENTER
ON INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION" AT
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I'LL START WITH THAT VERY
QUESTION.
HOW IMPORTANT WAS IT FOR THE
U.S. TO GET THIS AGREEMENT AND
WHY?
>> IT'S IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT
ALLOWS US TO MANAGE THE
TRANSITION TOWARD AFGHAN
SELF-RELIANCE ON SECURITY MUCH
MORE EFFECTIVELY.
AFGHAN SECURITY FORCES STILL
REQUIRE A GREAT DEAL OF U.S.
ASSISTANCE AND LOGISTICS
EXPERTISE AND, ABOVE ALL, I
SHOULD SAY, FUNDING, AND KEEPING
THOSE FORCES THERE MAKES IT MUCH
MORE LIKELY THEY WILL OBTAIN ALL
OF THOSE.
>> Brown: GIVEN THE
SENSITIVITIES THAT MARGARET
WARNER JUST REFERRED TO IN ALL
OF THIS, REMIND US EXACTLY WHAT
THESE TROOPS WILL DO.
WE REFER TO TRAINING AND
ASSISTANCE.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN EXACTLY?
>> IT MEANS THAT SYSTEM OF THEM
WILL BE WORKING IN HEADQUARTERS.
A FEW OF THEM WILL BE WORKING AT
DIVISION LEVEL IN THE FIELD.
THEY WILL NOT BE ENGAGED
DIRECTLY IN COMBAT ACTIVITIES.
BUT THERE'S A LOT MORE TO
RUNNING AN ARMY THAN FIGHTING.
THERE IS RECORD KEEPING,
LOGISTICS, TARGETING, DEFINITION
OF STRATEGY AND SO ON.
THOSE ARE ALL THINGS IN WHICH
THESE ADVISERS WILL HELP THEM TO
MAINTAIN AND DEVELOP THEIR
CAPABILITIES.
IN ADDITION, IT WILL GIVE US
ADDITIONAL EYES ON THE GROUND TO
HELP US UNDERSTAND THE POLITICAL
EVOLUTION THERE, AS WELL.
NOW, IT'S... THIS IS NOT A
PERMANENT DEPLOYMENT.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS SAID THAT
THISSED A VIZRY MISSION WILL
LAST AT MOST TWO YEARS.
WE'LL HAVE ONE OTHER MISSION,
WHICH IS WHAT THEY CALL
"COUNTER-TERRORISM."
, BUT THAT WILL BE LIMITED TO
TARGETING THOSE GROUPS THAT
SPECIFICALLY TARGET THE UNITED
STATES, IN PARTICULAR WHATEVER
REMNANTS OF AL QAEDA THERE MAY
BE IN AFGHANISTAN.
IT WON'T BE PART OF THE EFFORT
AGAINST THE TALIBAN.
>> Brown: I WONDER NOW WITH A
NEW PRESIDENT, IS THERE A SENSE
THAT THE U.S. HAS A REAL AND
RELIABLE ALLY IN ASHRAF GHANI AS
OPPOSED TO HAMID KARZAI?
>> I THINK THAT BOTH ASHRAF
GHANI AND HIS CHIEF EXECUTIVE,
ABDULLAH ABDULLAH, SUPPORTED
THIS AGREEMENT, AND BOTH OF THEM
HAVE BEEN QUITE CONSISTENT IN
THEIR VIEWS.
SO I THINK THAT THEY WILL
REPRESENT THE INTERESTS OF
AFGHANISTAN, WHICH ARE NOT
ALWAYS THE SAME AS THE INTERESTS
OF THE UNITED STATES.
BUT THEY WILL BE EASIER AND MORE
RELIABLE TO DEAL WITH.
>> AND I SUPPOSE LOOMING
QUESTION FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE AS
WE WATCH WHAT GOES IN IRAQ IS
WHAT LESSONS HAVE OR SHOULD U.S.
OFFICIALS LEARN FROM THAT WHEN
THEY LOOK AT OUR AFGHAN POLICY
NOW AND DEVELOP THAT?
>> I THINK ONE LESSON THEY
SHOULD LEARN IS NOT TO COMPARE
IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN BECAUSE IN
THE PAST FALSELY THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION DREW THE
CONCLUSION FROM THE RATHER RAPID
COLLAPSE OF THE TALIBAN IN
AFGHANISTAN THAT THEY COULD HAVE
A SIMILARLY EASY VICTORY IN
IRAQ, AND THAT WAS TOTALLY
WRONG.
IRAQ IS A MIDDLE-INCOME COUNTRY
WITH OIL REVENUE.
AFGHANISTAN IS AN EXTREMELY POOR
COUNTRY.
I THINK OF COURSE THE JUMBLE
LESSON THAT YOU SHOULD TRY TO
MAINTAIN STABILITY IN YOUR
RELATIONSHIPS IS VALID, BUT
AFTER IT WAS PRESIDENT AL-MALIKI
IN IRAQ THAT REFUSED TO SIGN AN
AGREEMENT SUCH AS THE ONE
IDENT GHANI HAS SIGNED IN
IRAQ TODAY.
>> Brown: BARNETT RUBIN, THANK
YOU SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: IN JAPAN, RESCUE
EFFORTS AT THE MOUNT ONTAKE
VOLCANO HAVE BEEN HAMPERED BY
TOXIC GASES AND FEARS OF ANOTHER
ERUPTION.
ON SATURDAY, MORE THAN 250
PEOPLE WERE OUT HIKING AND
ENJOYING A NICE FALL DAY, WHEN A
SURPRISE ERUPTION LITTERED THE
MOUNTAIN WITH FALLING BOULDERS,
THICK SMOKE AND PILES OF ASH.
AT LEAST 36 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND QUESTIONS HAVE BEEN RAISED
AS TO WHY THERE WASN'T MORE
WARNING.
HERE TO HELP US UNDERSTAND
WHAT'S HAPPENING, OUR SCIENCE
CORRESPONDENT, MILES O'BRIEN,
AND THOMAS WAGNER OF N.A.S.A.,
AN EXPERT ON VOLCANOS.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
MILES, TO YOU FIRST.
WAS THIS AS UNEXPECTED AS WE'RE
READING?
>> IT WAS, JUDY.
THIS WAS WHAT'S CALLED A
"FREEATIC" ERUPTION.
IT MEANS IT WAS SHALLOW AND
INVOLVED SOME HOT WATER
ESSENTIALLY, STEAMING WATER THAT
ENTERED INTO A CREVICE AND CAME
IN CONTACT WITH MAGMA, WHICH IS
MANY THOUSANDS OF DEGREES.
IT CAUSES AN UNDERSTAND AND INSH
LIKE WHAT YOU WOULD HAVE IN YOUR
OVEN AND CAUSES THAT CLOUD TO
COME OUT.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT THOSE
CENSORS, AND JAPAN HAS MANY
CENSORS ON THEIR VOLCANO, THIS
IS NOT THE TYPE OF THING THEY
PREDICT WELL.
>> Woodruff: SO THEY'RE NOT
ALWAYS UNPREDICTABLE, ARE THEY?
>> NO.
IT DEPENDS ON WHAT'S GOING ON IN
THE VOLCANO.
IN HAWAII THERE ARE BIG BODIES
OF MA "GMA" MOVING AROUND.
YOU CAN THINK OF A VOLCANO LIKE
A CRAZY PLUMBING SYSTEM IN A BIG
OLD BUILDING.
>> Woodruff: THERE ARE MANY
DIFFERENT KINDS OF VOLCANOS
ACTIVE AROUND THE WORLD, BUT
THEY'RE OPERATING AT DIFFERENT
SPEEDS.
>> SOME VOLCANOS LIKE THE
JAPANESE VOLCANOS HAVE A LOT OF
WATER IN THE MAGMA, LIKE IF YOU
TOOK THE SODA AND SHOOK IT UP,
UNLIKE HAWAII.
>> Woodruff: SO CLEARLY THESE
36 DEATHS ARE TRAGIC.
FOR THE VOLCANO ITSELF, HOW
SIGNIFICANT AN ERUPTION IS THIS?
>> WELL, THIS IS... SCIENTISTS
WILL BE LOOKING VERY CLOSELY AT
WHAT MAY LIE AHEAD HERE.
IF YOU'LL HARKIN BACK TO 1980,
MOUNT ST. HELENS BEFORE THE HUGE
REPRESENT SHUN THERE, THERE WAS
A SERIES OF THESE FREEATIC
ERUPTION, THESE ERUPTIONS
INVOLVING BOILING WATER.
THEY WERE VIEWED AS A PRECURSOR
TO THE ERUPTION WHICH WE
ULTIMATELY SAW WHICH CAUSED SUCH
DEFTATION IN THAT PART OF THE
WORLD.
SO VOLCANOS ARE IN SOME SENSE
PREDICTABLE BUT IN SOME SENSE
NOT.
YOU CAN SEE A LOT OF THE WARNING
SIGNS.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO KNOW WHEN
THEY'RE GOING TO BLOW.
THINK OF THE ISLAND OF
MONTSERRAT.
THAT ISLAND DEALT WITH
EVACUATIONS.
HALF THE ISLAND IS NOW
COMPLETELY EVACUATEDMENT BUT
ITLING NERD A STATE OF NEAR
ERUPTION FOR MANY, MANY YEARS.
MANY SCIENTISTS WERE ASKED, WHY
CAN'T YOU FIGURE THIS OUT
BETTER.
>> Woodruff: THOMAS WAGNER,
CONTINUING WITH THAT, IS IT EASY
TO PREDICT WHEN IT WILL SETTLE
DOWN BY WATCHING IT?
>> NO, BECAUSE YOU GET DIFFERENT
KINDS OF ERUPTIONS.
IN SOME CASES WE LOOK AT
SATELLITES TO SEE HOW A CENTRAL
KAY KNOW DEFORMS.
IN OTHER CASES PEOPLE MAP THE
OLD DEPOSITS AROUND THE VOLCANO
TO FIGURE OUT ITS HISTORY.
THE HAZARDS ARE DIFFERENT, TOO.
IN THIS CASE WE HAD A FREATIC
ERUPTION.
IN SOME CASES A TINY ERUPTION
MELTS SNOW AND MAKES A MUD FLOW.
ONE OF THOSE KILLED 20,000
PEOPLE IN SOUTH AMERICA IN THE
'80s.
SOMETIMES YOU GET LAVA FLOWS.
THAT'S WHY IT'S IMPORTANT TO
TUNGS PARTICULAR HAZARDS AROUND
THE CENTRAL KAY KNOW YOU'RE ON.
>> Woodruff: MILES, WHAT ARE
SCIENTISTS LOOKING AT HERE?
>> WELL, WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO
DO, AND AS I MENTIONED, THE
JAPANESE HAVE A WELL-CENSORED
VOLCANIC SYSTEM, IF YOU WILL, AS
WELL AS GREAT ABILITY TO PREDICT
QUAKE, AS WELL.
THIS IS A NATION THAT LIVES ON
THE KNIFE EDGE WHEN IT COMES TO
SEISMIC ACTIVITY AND
SO THEY'LL BE LOOKING AT THOSE
CENSORS, SEEING WHAT WAS
DAMAGED, PUTTING IN THE TYPES OF
DEVICES THAT WILL ALLOW THEM TO
FURTHER ANALYZE IT.
AT THE TIME OF THE HIKE, IT WAS
CONSIDERED SAFE TO BE THERE.
LEVEL ONE OUT OF A SCALE OF 1-5
ON THE SAFE END FOR HIKERS TO BE
IN PROXIMITY OF THAT VOLCANO.
PERHAPS OVER TIME THEY'LL NOT BE
AS GENEROUS WITH THAT RATING AS
THEY CONSIDER THE POSSIBILITY
THAT THIS COULD BE A PRECURSOR
TO SOMETHING BIGGER.
>> Woodruff: VERY QUICKLY,
THOMAS WAGNER, HERE IN THE U.S.,
NOTHING QUITE LIKE THIS?
>> NO.
WE HAVE LIKE MT. RAINIER AND ALL
THE CASCADE VOL NAY KNOWS.
WE HAVE A GREAT PROGRAM
MONITORING THOSE AND STUDYING
THOSE.
THERE ARE GOOD MAPS TO THE HARDS
THAT PEOPLE SHOULD MAKE
THEMSELVES AWARE OF.
>> Woodruff: IF YOU DIDN'T
HAVE A REASON TO DO THAT BEFORE,
YOU DO NOW.
THOMAS WAGNER WITH NASA AND OUR
OWN MILES O'BRIEN, WE THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: DID YOU HEAR THE
ONE ABOUT THE FAMOUS VIOLINIST
WHO PLAYED IN A SUBWAY STATION,
AND NO ONE NOTICED?
WELL, IT WAS A DIFFERENT STORY
TODAY AND JEFFREY BROWN WAS
THERE.
>> Brown: IT WAS A SIGHT THAT
ALMOST NO ONE WATCHED AS IT
HAPPENED, BUT GAINED MUCH
ATTENTION AFTERWARDS: A
SUPERSTAR OF THE CLASSICAL MUSIC
WORLD, JOSHUA BELL, PLAYING IN A
METRO STATION IN WASHINGTON D.C
IN 2007, LARGELY IGNORED BY A
FEW THOUSAND COMMUTERS ON THEIR
WAY TO WORK.
AN ARTICLE BY GENE WEINGARTEN OF
THE WASHINGTON POST ABOUT THE
EVENT, OR NON-EVENT, WON A
PULITZER PRIZE.
NOW 46, BELL HAS BEEN PERFORMING
IN THE WORLD'S GREATEST HALLS
SINCE HE WAS A TEENAGER.
AND HE'S RECORDED MORE THAN 40
ALBUMS, INCLUDING A BRAND NEW
ONE OF COMPOSITIONS BY BACH.
BUT SOMETHING ABOUT THE SUBWAY
PERFORMANCE CAPTURED THE
IMAGINATION OF MANY, AND
APPARENTLY OF BELL HIMSELF,
BECAUSE THERE HE WAS EARLIER
TODAY, AT WASHINGTON'S UNION
STATION METRO.
THIS TIME, THOUGH, THE
PERFORMANCE HAD BEEN PUBLICIZED.
BELL BROUGHT ALONG A GROUP OF
YOUNG MUSICIANS HE'S BEEN
WORKING WITH FOR AN HBO "MASTER
CLASS" PROGRAM.
AND, WITH WORD OUT THAT THIS WAS
NO MERE "BUSKER" ASKING FOR A
FEW DOLLARS, A CROWD WAS ON
HAND.
BELL JOINED US SOON AFTER.
IT WAS BETTER THIS TIME?
>> A LOT BETTER BROWN BROWN A
LOT BETTER?
>> I DIDN'T ENJOY THE FIRST TIME
AROUND THAT MUCH, ALTHOUGH I WAS
AMUSED THE FIRST TIME AROUND.
>> Brown: WAIT.
WHY DID YOU NOT ENJOY IT?
>> MUSIC, YOU NEED THE GIVE AND
TAKE FROM THE AUDIENCE AND THE
FEELING OF ATTENTION AND... IT'S
NOT ABOUT ATTENTION TO ME.
IT'S ABOUT THE MUSIC ITSELF.
PART OF THE REASON WHY I
ACCEPTED TO COME HERE WAS THE
INVITATION OF UNION STATION WAS
THEY SAID, THIS TIME WE'RE GOING
TO TELL PEOPLE ABOUT IT, SPREAD
THE WORD, AND NOPEFULLY YOU'LL
GET A CAPTIVE AUDIENCE.
I SAID, YOU KNOW, THIS IS
PRECISELY WHAT THE WHOLE
ORIGINAL EXPERIMENT, WHICH WAS
NOT SCIENTIFIC IN ANY WAY,
THAT'S REALLY WHAT IT WAS ABOUT.
>> Brown: IT ALL RAISES THE
QUESTION OF HOW CLASSICAL MUSIC
COULD
SHOULD BE OR COULD BE PREVENTED.
SHOULD IT BE DONE IN DIFFERENT
VENUES?
SHOULD YOU TRY OUT DIFFERENT
THINGS?
SHOULD YOU REACH PEOPLE IN
DIFFERENT WAYS?
>> I'M ALWAYS INTERESTED IN
REACHING PEOPLE IN DIFFERENT
WAY, NOT WE JUST STANDING
RANDOMLY ON A SUBWAY PLATFORM
WITH MY CASE OPEN.
THAT'S NOT REALLY A GREAT WAY,
BUT THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF... I
THINK THIS SHOWS THERE IS
INTEREST IN CLASSICAL MUSIC FROM
A WIDE RANGE OF PEOPLE.
I FELL LIKE ONE OF THE BEATLES.
I DON'T NORMALLY GET THAT KIND
OF RESPONSE FROM PEOPLE GRABBING
AT ME.
IT WAS SO FUN FOR ME.
BUT I THINK WE NEED TO
EXPERIMENT WITH MORE CREATIVE
WAYS OF REACHING AUDIENCES.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE IDEA, AND I
WAS THINKING OF THIS AS THEY
STARTED CLAPPING AFTER THE FIRST
MOVEMENT, SOMETIMES THERE'S A
DISCUSSION IN CLASSICAL MUSIC
CIRCLES, YOU KNOW, SHOULD WE
ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO CLAP?
SHOULD BIT A LESS FORMAL
EXPERIENCE?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, PEOPLE,
IF YOU GO BACK 100 YEARS OF 200
YEARS WHEN THE MUSIC OF
MENDELSON WAS BEING PERFORME
PEOPLE DID CLAP AFTER THAT FIRST
MOMENT, WHEN BEETHOVEN'S SEVENTH
SYMPHONY WAS PERFORMED AFTER THE
SECOND MOVEMENT, THEY CLAPPED SO
MUCH THEY HAD THE REPEAT THE
SECOND MOVEMENT.
THERE WAS A DIFFERENT VIBE.
PEOPLE TODAY WHEN THEY SAY
YOU'RE NOT SUPPOSED TO CLAP,
HISTORICALLY IT'S INCORRECT AND
I ENJOY... WHEN I H
CLAPPING AT THE WRONG TIMES, I
THINK THAT'S GREAT.
WE HAVE A LISTENER THAT'S NOT
USED TO GOING, WE HAVE A NEW
LISTENER.
THAT EXCITES ME.
>> BUT YOU DON'T WANT TO
DISCOURAGE THAT.
>> I DON'T.
I'VE HAD CONDUCTORS, PLAYED WITH
CONDUCTORS THAT TURN AROUND TO
THE AUDIENCE AND SAY, DON'T
CLAP, AND I'LL USUALLY TURN TO
THE AUDIENCE AND SAY, COME ON,
DO IT, DO IT.
>> WE OFTEN HEAR ABOUT THE
CRISIS OF CLASSICAL MUSIC,
RIGHT, ABOUT THE AGING AUDIENCE,
ABOUT THE... DO YOU SENSE THAT?
WHAT DO YOU SEE?
>> I THINK PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THE AGING AUDIENCE
FOR 100 YEARS NOW.
AND SOMEHOW PEOPLE KEEP
REPLACING THOSE OLDER PEOPLE
BECAUSE I THINK THE PROBLEM IS
THAT CLASSICAL MUSIC, SO OFTEN
WE COME TO IT LATE IN LIFE, AS
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR SOMETHING,
SOMETHING IN MUSIC THAT'S NOT
JUST ABOUT BEING TRENDY AND
WHAT'S POPULAR, BUT SOMETHING
THAT'S PROFOUNDLY AFFECTS YOU.
I THINK GREAT CLASSICAL MUSIC
AND JAZZ AND OTHER THINGS, BUT
THERE IS NO REASON WHY WE CAN'T
REACH YOUNGER PEOPLE.
I'M NOT PESSIMISTIC ABOUT IT.
LOOK AT THE YOUNG PEOPLE THERE
TODAY.
AFTER EVERY CONCERT I GO TO, I
GREET YOUNG PEOPLE IN THE
LOBBIES.
I SEE A HUGE SURGE OF YOUNG
PEOPLE PLAYING MUSIC.
SO I THINK WHERE WE NEED TO WORK
ON IS GETTING, MAKING SURE THAT
IT'S JUST PART OF EVERYONE'S
EDUCATIONAL DIET IN THE SCHOOL,
MUSIC AN ART IS PART OF WHAT IT
MEANS TO BE A HUMAN BEING, AND
TO MAKE IT AN EXTRACURRICULAR
THING IS SAD BECAUSE MOST KIDS
WILL NOT GET ANY MUSICAL
EXPERIENCE IF THEY DON'T HAVE IT
IN THEIR SCHOOLS AT SOME POINT.
>> AND YET THAT IS HAPPENING?
>> IT'S HAPPENING.
THAT'S WHAT I'M SPENDING A LOT
OF ENERGY TRYING TO ENCOURAGE
CHANGE IN THAT WAY.
I'M WORKING WITH EDUCATION
THROUGH MUSIC, WHICH IS ETM, AN
ORGANIZATION THAT PUTS CLASSICAL
MUSIC PROGRAMS IN OR JUST MUSIC
PROGRAMS IN INNER CITY SCHOOLS
THAT HAVE NO MUSIC PROGRAMS.
WE'VE SEEN INCREDIBLE... THE
TEST SCORES GO UP ALL ACROSS THE
BOARD.
THEIR SELF-ESTEEM OF THESE KIDS
THAT HAVE AN INSTRUMENT IN THEIR
HAND AND PLAY TOGETHER, IF YOU
SAW... IF ANYONE SAW THAT, THEY
WOULD THINK IT'S LUDICROUS EVER
TO CUT OUT MUSIC FROM YOUR
SCHOOL, AND I HOPE YOU WILL GET
THAT MESSAGE.
>> SPEAKING OF YOUNG PEOPLE, YOU
YOURSELF STARTED AS SUCH A YOUNG
PERSON.
>> YOU HAVE BEEN AT THIS A LONG
TIME.
DO YOU FEEL PRESSURE TO KEEP...
I DON'T KNOW, FINDING IN -- NEW
WAYS TO DO NEW REPERTOIRE, NEW
APPROACH, NEW VENUES LIKE THIS?
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT A
PRESSURE.
IT'S JUST... FOR ME IT'S THE
MUSIC WORLD AND THE THINGS THAT
I WANT TO DO IS SO HUGE THAT
IT'S JUST... THE ONLY THING THAT
MAKES ME SAD IS THERE'S NOT
ENOUGH TIME IN MY LIFETIME TO
SEE THE THINGS I WANT TO DO.
>> ARE YOU DONE WITH SUBWAY
STATIONS FOR NOW?
>> I THINK IT'S A PERFECT END TO
THE STORY.
THERE WERE A LOT OF CHAPTERS
UNANTICIPATED.
THERE'S A CHILDREN'S BOOK ABOUT
IT.
THERE HAVE BEEN SERMONS FROM
PREACHERS AND MINISTERS AND POP
TICKINGS.
AND IT'S BEEN KIND OF FUN
FOLLOWING THE JOURNEY, BUT THIS
I THINK WAS A PERFECT CAP,
ENDING TO THE STORY.
I COULDN'T HAVE BEEN MORE
PLEASED WITH IT.
>> Brown: JOSHUA BELL, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME TODAY.
>> Woodruff: IN THE BATTLE FOR
CONTROL OF THE UNITED STATES
SENATE, THIS SUMMER'S PRIMARY
CONTEST IN MISSISSIPPI EXPOSED
DEEP DIVISIONS IN THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY THAT STILL HAVEN'T BEEN
RECONCILED.
JEFFREY HESS OF MISSISSIPPI
PUBLIC BROADCASTING HAS OUR
REPORT.
>> Reporte2-
SENATOR CHRIS MCDANIEL IS THE
>> Reporter: 42-YEAR-OLD STATE
ENERGETIC, YOUNG FACE OF
SENATOR CHRIS MCDANIEL IS THE
MISSISSIPPI'S TEA PARTY.
ENERGETIC, YOUNG FACE OF
THE SARAH PALIN-BACKED MCDANIEL
MISSISSIPPI'S TEA PARTY.
CAME WITHIN A FEW THOUSAND VOTES
THE SARAH PALIN-BACKED MCDANIEL
OF BEATING SIX-TERM INCUMBENT
CAME WITHIN A FEW THOUSAND VOTES
REPUBLICAN U.S. SENATOR THAD
OF BEATING SIX-TERM INCUMBENT
COCHRAN IN A JUNE PRIMARY AND
REPUBLICAN U.S. SENATOR THAD
SUBSEQUENT RUN OFF BY RIDING A
COCHRAN IN A JUNE PRIMARY AND
WAVE OF ANTI-WASHINGTON, ANTI-
SUBSEQUENT RUN OFF BY RIDING A
INCUMBENT ANGER.
WAVE OF ANTI-WASHINGTON, ANTI-
MCDANIEL CLAIMS ELECTION FRAUD
INCUMBENT ANGER.
HELPED COCHRAN WIN A JUNE RUNOFF
MCDANIEL CLAIMS ELECTION FRAUD
ELECTION, AND IS CHALLENGING THE
HELPED COCHRAN WIN A JUNE RUNOFF
RESULTS IN COURT.
ELECTION, AND IS CHALLENGING THE
ACCORDING TO MCDANIEL, DEMOCRATS
RESULTS IN COURT.
VOTED IN THEIR OWN PRIMARY AND
ACCORDING TO MCDANIEL, DEMOCRATS
THEN ILLEGALLY CROSSED OVER AND
VOTED IN THEIR OWN PRIMARY AND
VOTED IN THE REPUBLICAN RUNOFF,
THEN ILLEGALLY CROSSED OVER AND
WHICH IS A VIOLATION OF STATE
VOTED IN THE REPUBLICAN RUNOFF,
LAW.
WHICH IS A VIOLATION OF STATE
MCDANIEL BLAMES THE STATE'S
LAW.
REPUBLICAN ESTABLISHMENT AND THE
MCDANIEL BLAMES THE STATE'S
COCHRAN CAMPAIGN FOR APPEALING
REPUBLICAN ESTABLISHMENT AND THE
TO THOSE DEMOCRATS, IN ADDITION
COCHRAN CAMPAIGN FOR APPEALING
TO MILLIONS SPENT BY OUTSIDE
TO THOSE DEMOCRATS, IN ADDITION
GROUPS ATTEMPTING TO SWAY THE
TO MILLIONS SPENT BY OUTSIDE
RACE AND POTENTIAL STOP THE TEA
GROUPS ATTEMPTING TO SWAY THE
PARTY IN ITS TRACKS.
RACE AND POTENTIAL STOP THE TEA
>> THEY WERE WILLING TO
PARTY IN ITS TRACKS.
SACRIFICE A FRIEND FOR POWER.
>> THEY WERE WILLING TO
THEY WOULD SAY AND DO ANYTHING
SACRIFICE A FRIEND FOR POWER.
TO DO THAT.
THEY WOULD SAY AND DO ANYTHING
AND THEY DID.
TO DO THAT.
THAT'S PROBLEMATIC, BUT NOT JUST
AND THEY DID.
FOR ME BECAUSE WHEN THEY CALLED
THAT'S PROBLEMATIC, BUT NOT JUST
ME THOSE NASTY NAMES, WHEN THEY
FOR ME BECAUSE WHEN THEY CALLED
CALLED ME A RACIST, WHICH IS NOT
ME THOSE NASTY NAMES, WHEN THEY
TRUE, WHEN THEY SAID I WAS GOING
CALLED ME A RACIST, WHICH IS NOT
TO CUT OFF FUNDING FOR
TRUE, WHEN THEY SAID I WAS GOING
HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND
TO CUT OFF FUNDING FOR
UNIVERSITIES, WHICH IS NOT TRUE,
HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND
WHEN THEY SAID I WAS GOING TO
UNIVERSITIES, WHICH IS NOT TRUE,
END WELFARE AND SUSPEND VOTING
WHEN THEY SAID I WAS GOING TO
RIGHTS, WHICH IS ALL NOT TRUE,
END WELFARE AND SUSPEND VOTING
THEY WERE LIKEWISE SAYING IT
RIGHTS, WHICH IS ALL NOT TRUE,
ABOUT 187,000 CONSERVATIVES.
THEY WERE LIKEWISE SAYING IT
>> Reporter: THE CONTENTIOUS
ABOUT 187,000 CONSERVATIVES.
PRIMARY HIN
>> Reporter: THE CONTENTIOUS
THE MOST HIGH-PROFILE EXAMPLE OF
PRIMARY HIN
THE FIGHT THAT PLAYED OUT IN
THE MOST HIGH-PROFILE EXAMPLE OF
PRIMARIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
THE FIGHT THAT PLAYED OUT IN
THIS YEAR BETWEEN THE
PRIMARIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
ESTABLISHMENT AND TEA PARTY
THIS YEAR BETWEEN THE
WINGS OF REPUBLICAN PARTY.
ESTABLISHMENT AND TEA PARTY
IN 2010, REPUBLICANS RODE A WAVE
WINGS OF REPUBLICAN PARTY.
OF TEA PARTY SUPPORT TO TAKE
IN 2010, REPUBLICANS RODE A WAVE
BACK THE HOUSE.
OF TEA PARTY SUPPORT TO TAKE
BUT MANY REPUBLICANS WITH TIES
BACK THE HOUSE.
TO WASHINGTON BELIEVED THE TEA
BUT MANY REPUBLICANS WITH TIES
PARTY COST THEM SEATS IN THE
TO WASHINGTON BELIEVED THE TEA
SENATE.
PARTY COST THEM SEATS IN THE
WITH CONTROL OF THE SENATE UP
SENATE.
FOR GRABS THIS YEAR, THEY WERE
WITH CONTROL OF THE SENATE UP
DETERMINED NOT TO LET IT HAPPEN
FOR GRABS THIS YEAR, THEY WERE
AGAIN, AND THEY SPENT MILLIONS
DETERMINED NOT TO LET IT HAPPEN
TO MAKE SURE OF IT.
AGAIN, AND THEY SPENT MILLIONS
BUT STAUNCH MCDANIEL AND TEA
TO MAKE SURE OF IT.
PARTY SUPPORTERS AREN'T GIVING
BUT STAUNCH MCDANIEL AND TEA
UP THE FIGHT.
PARTY SUPPORTERS AREN'T GIVING
MCDANIEL'S LEGAL APPEAL TO THE
>> THIS RACE SPLIT THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY IN HALF IS
BASICALLY WHAT IT DID.
I TOLD A GUY THE OTHER DAY,
THERE'S A MCDANIEL STICKER STILL
ON MY CAR, PRETEND THAT'S MY
NAME ON THERE AND EVERYTHING
HAT HAPPENED TO CHRIS HAPPENED
TO ME.
>> Reporter: MISSISSIPPI TEA
PARTY CHAIR LAURA VAN OVERSHELDE
SAYS THEY ARE UNLIKELY TO
ENDORSE OR CAMPAIGN FOR SENATOR
COCHRAN IN THE GENERAL ELECTION
AGAINST H
>> WE ENDORSED CHRIS MCDANIEL
BECAUSE HE HOLDS THOSE TRUTHS
THAT WE SHOULD HAVE A LIMITED
GOVERNMENT, WE SHOULD HAVE
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY AND WE
SHOULD HAVE FREE MARKETS IN THIS
COUNTRY.
AND THAD COCHRAN HAS NOT SHOWN
US BY HIS VOTING RECORD THAT HE
SUPPORTS ANY OF THOSE.
>> Reporter: REPAIRING THE RIFT
BETWEEN ACTIVE TEA PARTY
SUPPORTERS AND MORE MAIN STREAM
REPUBLICANS IS THE CHALLENGE
FACING MISSISSIPPI'S GOP CHAIR
JOE NOSEF, WHO SAYS IT IS TIME
TO MOVE INTO GENERAL ELECTION
MODE.
>> YOU CAN'T CONTINUE TO MOVE
THE BAR EVERY TIME A DIFFERENT
ELECTION COMES UP AND CREATE A
LITMUS TEST FOR WHAT YOU
CONSIDER A REAL REPUBLICAN, I
SAID TO SOMEONE THE OTHER DAY
THAT MY ONLY HOPE IS THAT YOU
WOULDN'T VOTE AGAINST YOUR OWN
BEST INTEREST AND TRY TO GET
SOMEBODY BACK THAT RAN AN AD YOU
DIDN'T LIKE.
THE REPUBLICAN NOMINEE WILL FACE
OFF AGAINST DEMOCRAT TRAVIS
CHILDERS, A FORMER CONGRESSMAN
FROM THE STATE'S FIRST DISTRICT,
AND A LITTLE KNOWN REFORM PARTY
POLLS IN THE STATE HAVE
REPEATEDLY SHOWN COCHRAN WITH A
ROUGHLY 15-POINT LEAD.
COCHRAN WON BY ALMOST 25-POINTS
IN HIS REELECTION SIX YEARS AGO.
D'ANDRE OREY, A POLITICAL
SCIENCE PROFESSOR AT JACKSON
STATE UNIVERSITY, SAYS IT WOULD
BE A LONG SHOT FOR CHILDERS TO
BEAT EITHER REPUBLICAN BUT THAT
TEA PARTY SUPPORTERS DO HAVE A
CHOICE TO MAKE.
>> THE TEA PARTY ELECTORATE CAN
DO ONE OF TWO THINGS.
THEY CAN GET OUT THEIR VOTE SO
THAT THE DEMOCRAT DOES NOT WIN
BECAUSE THAT IS A VERY, VERY
PLAUSIBLE CASE IF THEY DON'T GET
OUT THE VOTE.
OR THEY CAN STAY HOME AND SHOW,
IN THEIR OPINION, HOW MUCH POWER
THEY HAVE.
AND SO THE QUESTION IS ONE OF
THOSE TWO BEING THE ANSWER, I
JUST DON'T KNOW BECAUSE I DON'T
KNOW WHAT THEY WILL DO.
>> Reporter: COCHRAN WOULD BE A
STRONG FAVORITE TO RETAIN HIS
SEAT IN NOVEMBER IN PART BECAUSE
OF HIS BROAD APPEAL.
IN FACT IN HIS PRIMARY, HE WAS
ABLE TO TURN OUT BLACK VOTERS BY
REMINDING THEM OF HIS RECORD OF
BRINGING BACK FUNDING TO THE
STATE AND WARNING ABOUT WHAT
MCDANIEL WOULD CUT.
FORMER GOVERNOR HALEY BARBOUR'S
NEPHEW WAS ONE OF THE
ORCHESTRATORS OF THAT STRATEGY,
WHICH ENRAGED TEA PARTY
ACTIVISTS.
BARBOUR HIMSELF, WHO IS OFTEN
CREDITED WITH CREATING THE
REPUBLICAN INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE
STATE, FEELS CONFIDENT THAT TEA
PARTY SUPPORTERS WILL REMEMBER
THAT THEY ARE REPUBLICANS AT
HEART.
>> ANYTIME YOU HAVE A VIGOROUSLY
CONTESTED PRIMARY SOME PEOPLE
ARE GONNA GET THEIR FEELINGS
HURT.
SOME PEOPLE ARE GONNA PICK UP
THEIR MARBLES AND GO HOME.
BUT MOST PEOPLE COME BACK,
BECAUSE OF WHAT THEY BELIEVE IN.
THE OBAMA ADMIN HAS FOLLOWED
POLICIES SO FAR TO THE LEFT AND
SO ANTAGONISTIC TO WHAT
REPUBLICANS, WHETHER THEY ARE
TEA PARTY REPUBLICANS OR BEEN
REPUBLICANS FOR 50 YEARS.
THOSE OBAMA POLICIES ARE SO BAD
PEOPLE ARE NOT GOING TO STAY
HOME.
>> Reporter: DEMOCRATIC
CANDIDATE CHILDERS SAYS HE DOES
NOT THINK THAT THE INTENSE
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY WILL HAVE AN
EFFECT ON THE NOVEMBER GENERAL
ELECTION.
HE SAYS HE IS NOT CONCERNED
ABOUT HIS AFFILIATION WITH THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY WILL DRAG HIM
DOWN.
>> PEOPLE ARE FAR LESS CONCERNED
AB OF
MISSISSIPPI.
THEY ARE MORE CONCERNED ABOUT
WHO IS GOING TO WORK FOR THEM
AND WHO IS GOING TO STAND UP FOR
THEM.
WHO IS GOING TO STAND UP FOR
MISSISSIPPI AND WHO IS GOING TO
STAND UP TO WASHINGTON DC.
I AM CLEARLY THE WORKING MAN'S
>> Reporter: BUT TIME IS RUNNING
OUT.
THE PARTY AND THE COCHRAN
CAMPAIGN NEED TO SHIFT INTO
GENERAL ELECTION MODE TO REMIND
THEIR VOTERS THAT THERE IS STILL
A RACE TO BE RUN THIS NOVEMBER.
COCHRAN CAMPAIGN SPOKESMAN
JORDAN RUSSELL SAYS THEY ARE
MOVING ON, CONFIDENT THAT THEIR
PRIMARY RUN OFF VICTORY WILL
STAND.
>> WE ARE CAMPAIGNING.
WE HAVE BEEN IN 42 COUNTIES.
WE ARE MOVING AR
WE ARE FOCUSED ON NOVEMBER.
MAKING SURE PEOPLE UNDERSTAND
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SENATOR
COCHRAN AND HIS CHALLENGER.
THE COURT CASE WILL PLAY OUT HOW
IT WILL PLAY OUT.
>> Reporter: THE STATE SUPREME
COURT IS SCHEDULED TO HEAR
MCDANIEL'S APPEAL TO A LOWER
COURT'S DECISION TO THROW OUT
HIS CHALLENGE TO THE RUNOFF
RESULTS.
IN THE MEANTIME, BALLOTS ARE
BEING PRINTED THAT LIST SENATOR
THAD COCHRAN AS THE REPUBLICAN
NOMINEE TO BE THE U.S. SENATOR
FROM MISSISSIPPI.
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY
TONIGHT, TO CALIFORNIA.PARTNERE-
NEWSOURCE, A SAN DIEGO-BASED
JOURNALISM NONPROFIT, TO TAKE US
INSIDE SPECIAL NURSING HOME
UNITS WHERE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
LIVE ON LIFE SUPPORT.
THE STATE SPENDS MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS ON THIS TYPE OF CARE
DESIGNED TO PRESERVE LIFE AT ALL
COSTS.
FAMILIES OFTEN HAVE HIGH HOPES
FOR THEIR LOVED ONES TO RECOVER,
BUT FEW EVER WILL.
I-NEWSOURCE REPORTER JOANNE
FARYON REPORTS ON THE IMPOSSIBLE
CHOICE FACING THOSE FAMILIES,
WHEN TO LET GO.
>> YOU KNOW ME, YOU KNOW ME,
YOUR HUSBAND STEVE.
>> Reporter: STEVE SIMMONS
SPENDS MOST EVENINGS BY HIS
WIFE'S BEDSIDE.
RAFAELA SIMMONS IS SEVERELY
BRAIN INJURED.
>> SQUEEZE MY HAND.
>> Reporter: SHE HAS A FEEDING
TUBE IN HER ABDOMEN, A
TRACHEOTOMY TUBE IN HER THROAT,
SHE IS UNABLE TO WALK OR TALK,
OR RESPOND TO THE WORLD AROUND
HER.
>> SQUEEZE MY HAND.
>> Reporter: SHE HAS LIVED IN
THIS NURSING HOME FOR THE PAST
FOUR YEARS.
>> Reporter: RAFAELA IS ONE OF
THE 4,000 PEOPLE LIVING IN UNITS
LIKE THIS IN CALIFORNIA.
ON THE BOOKS THEY'RE CALLED
SUBACUTE UNITS, BUT AMONG SOME
DOCTORS, THEY'RE KNOWN AS VENT
FARMS, BECAUSE SO MANY PEOPLE
WHO LIVE HERE NEED VENTILATORS
JUST TO BREATHE.
THE AVERAGE AGE OF THESE
RESIDENTS IS 56.
BUT THERE ARE UNITS DEVOTED JUST
TO CHILDREN.
THEY'RE THE END OF THE LINE, THE
PLACE PEOPLE GO ONCE MEDICINE
HAS SAVED THEM, BUT WHERE THERE
IS LITTLE HOPE FOR RECOVERY.
ED KIRKPATRICK IS THE DIRECTOR
OF THE VILLA CORONADO NURSING
HOME IN SAN DIEGO COUNTY.
>> THE DRIVE IN THE SYSTEM IS TO
BE ABLE TO REPAIR AND FIX
ANYTHING.
AND THAT'S A GOOD THING, THAT'S
A GOOD THING.
WE WANT THAT TO HAPPEN.
AT WHAT POINT THOUGH DOES IT
BECOME FUTILE?
>> Reporter: THE VILLA CORONADO
SUBACUTE UNIT IS ONE THE LARGEST
IN CALIFORNIA.
MOST OF THE 62 MEN AND WOMEN
HERE DON'T REACT TO PEOPLE.
OR STIMULI.
TOUCH.
SOUND.
SMELL.
THEY HAVE NOT TASTED FOOD IN
YEARS.
SOME HAVE HAD STROKES.
OTHERS, TRAUMATIC BRAIN
INJURIES.
FALLS AND FIGHTS.
CAR AND MOTORCYCLE CRASHES.
>> IT WAS A BEAUTIFUL DAY IN
FEBRUARY IT HAPPENED VALENTINE'S
DAY 2010, AND I LOVE RIDING MY
MOTORCYCLE AND I RODE IT EVERY
WEEK.
>> Reporter: STEVE WASN'T GOING
VERY FAST THAT SUNDAY MORNING.
RAFAELA WAS ON THE BACK OF HIS
BIKE WHEN THEY WERE HIT BY A
CAR.
SHE WAS THROWN.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW HIGH SHE
WENT.
I DON'T KNOW AT WHAT ANGLE SHE
CAME DOWN.
MY FRIEND SAW BUT I TOLD HIM
DON'T TELL ME.
>> Reporter: LIKE EVERYONE ON
THIS UNIT, RAFAELA NEEDS
CONSTANT CARE.
SHE IS TURNED TO AVOID BED
SORES, HER TUBES ARE CLEANED AND
FLUSHED, AND THERE IS THIS.
THE ROUTINE SUCTIONING.
PEOPLE WITH TRACHEOTOMIES ARE
UNABLE TO COUGH UP MUCUS THAT
GETS TRAPPED IN THEIR LUNGS.
DR. KEN WARM IS RAFAELA'S
DOCTOR.
>> I FEEL IT EVERY TIME I SEE
IT.
HOW FRIGHTENING IT WOULD BE TO
HAVE A TUBE IN MY LUNGS AND I
CAN'T CATCH MY BREATH AND I'M
COUGHING AND SOMEONE IS DOING
THAT TO ME.
I CAN'T MOVE MY ARMS TO PUSH IT
AWAY AND REFLECTING ON THAT CAN
BE HORRIFYING.
>> Reporter: THIS LEVEL OF CARE
IS EXPENSIVE.
IT CAN RANGE FROM ABOUT $500 A
DAY TO AS MUCH AS $900,
DEPENDING ON THE NURSING HOME.
MEDICAL, A STATE PROGRAM FOR THE
POOR AND DISABLED, PAYS FOR MOST
OF IT.
MORE THAN $630 MILLION LAST
YEAR.
THAT'S ALMOST DOUBLE OVER THE
PAST DECADE.
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
ESTABLISHED THESE UNITS BACK IN
1983 TO SAVE MONEY.
KEEPING PEOPLE ON VENTILATORS
AND FEEDING TUBES IS EVEN MORE
EXPENSIVE IN AN INTENSIVE CARE
UNIT THAN IN A NURSING HOME.
JOAN TENO IS A PROFESSOR AT THE
BROWN MEDICAL SCHOOL.
SHE IS AN EXPERT ON MEDICAL CARE
FOR THE DYING.
>> I WAS KIND OF SHOCKED.
I STARTED LOOKING AT IT AND I
THOUGHT THIS IS LIKE A ROBIN
COOK BOOK.
LIKE A VENT FARM.
>> Reporter: ROBIN COOK WROTE
"COMA," A MEDICAL THRILLER ABOUT
BRAIN DEAD PATIENTS BEING KEPT
ALIVE
TENO SAYS THE FINANCIAL
INCENTIVES IN THE MEDICAL SYSTEM
ARE ALIGNED WITH DOING MORE AT
THE END OF LIFE, PROCEDURES AND
HOSPITALIZATIONS, RATHER THAN
LETTING GO.
>> WE PAY FOR ANOTHER DAY IN THE
ICU.
WE DON'T PAY FOR THE PHYSICIAN
TO SIT DOWN AND HAVE THAT REALLY
DIFFICULT CONVERSATION WITH THAT
FAMILY ABOUT WHAT WOULD YOUR
MOTHER WANT UNDER THESE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
THOSE CONVERSATIONS WERE
POLITICALLY-DUBBED AS DEATH
PANELS IN 2009 DURING THE DEBATE
OVER OBAMACARE.
UNDER THE ORIGINAL HEALTHCARE
PROPOSAL, DOCTORS WOULD HAVE
BEEN PAID TO HAVE END OF LIFE
CONVERSATIONS WITH THEIR
PATIENTS.
THAT PROVISION WAS EVENTUALLY
REMOVED FROM THE HEALTH CARE
BILL.
ACCORDING TO A RECENT PEW
RESEARCH STUDY, 66% OF
AMERICANS, SAY THERE ARE SOME
CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH DOCTORS
SHOULD ALLOW PATIENTS TO DIE.
31% BELIEVE THEY SHOULD DO
EVERYTHING MEDICALLY POSSIBLE TO
SAVE LIVES IN ALL CASES.
>> I'VE HEARD THAT SO MANY TIMES
IN MY CAREER, "DO EVERYTHING, DO
EVERYTHING."
OKAY, WE WILL.
>> Reporter: OFTEN, PEOPLE ARE
MAKING THOSE DECISIONS UNDER
DURESS, OR THEY'RE MAKING IT FOR
SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T HAVE AN
ADVANCED DIRECTIVE, A DOCUMENT
STATING THEIR MEDICAL WISHES.
AFTER THE ACCIDENT, RAFAELA
SPENT NEARLY A MONTH IN AN ICU
TEETERING BETWEEN LIFE AND
DEATH.
DOCTORS TOLD STEVE HIS WIFE
WOULD PROBABLY NEVER RECOVER AND
OFFERED HOSPICE.
BUT A NEUROLOGIST WHO WAS
CONSULTING ON THE CASE, TOLD
STEVE, RAFAELA WAS A FIGHTER.
>> HE GAVE ME A LITTLE BIT OF
HOPE.
>> Reporter: IN CALIFORNIA, A
PATIENT OR THEIR NEXT OF KIN,
CAN STOP TREATMENT OR DISCONNECT
LIFE-SUPPORT AT ANY TIME.
THEY CAN EVEN WITHHOLD FOOD AND
WATER.
BUT DECIDING WHETHER A LIFE IS
WORTH LIVING, AND MAKING THAT
DECISION FOR SOMEONE ELSE, A
PARENT OR EVEN A CHILD, CAN BE
AGONIZING.
>> MARIA WOULD THROW THEM
DELIBERATELY AT THEIR FEET SO
THEY WOULD BREAK.
>> Reporter: SOME PEOPLE ON THIS
WARD HAVE A PROGRESSIVE ILLNESS.
LIKE MARIA CURCIO.
SHE WAS BORN WITH SEVERE
CEREBRAL PALSY.
NANCY CURCIO IS MARIA'S MOTHER.
>> SHE HAS THE FEEDING TUBE, A
UROSTEMY TUBE AND THE TRACH.
>> Reporter: MARIA IS 54 YEARS
OLD.
SHE HAS LIVED IN THIS NURSING
HOME ROOM FOR TEN YEARS.
SHE HAS KIDNEY PROBLEMS,
RESPIRATORY FAILURE, AND A RIGHT
HIP SO BADLY CONTRACTED IT
REQUIRED SURGEONS TO CUT THROUGH
BONE FOR RELIEF.
SHE HAS NEVER WALKED OR TALKED.
>> IT'S GETTING HARDER AND
HARDER BECAUSE BASICALLY, IF I
WAS IN THAT CONDITION, I WOULD
GIVE IT UP.
>> Reporter: NANCY HAS HAD TO
MAKE LIFE AND DEATH DECISIONS
FOR HER DAUGHTER FROM THE TIME
SHE WAS BORN.
DOCTORS SENT HER HOME TO DIE
BECAUSE SHE COULDN'T SUCK FROM A
BOTTLE.
NANCY FED HER DROP BY DROP.
TEN YEARS AGO, MARIA NEEDED
EMERGENCY SURGERY.
>> ONE DOCTOR STOPPED ME IN THE
HALL AND SAID, "MRS CURCIO, WE
CANNOT DO THE SURGERY UNLESS WE
DO A TRACH."
AND I  HAD SECONDS TO MAKE UP MY
MIND, AND THEN I LOOKED DOWN AT
MARIA AND SHE'S LOOKING AT ME
LIKE, "HEY, WHAT ARE YOU
THINKING ABOUT, I DON'T WANT TO
DIE!
THIS IS ME."
>> Reporter: THERE ARE TIMES
WHEN MARIA SMILES AND SHE LOOKS
MORE LIKE THE HAPPY LITTLE GIRL
IN SO MANY OF THE CURCIO FAMILY
PHOTOS THAN THE MIDDLE-AGED
WOMAN SHE NOW IS.
OR SHE TRIES TO SPELL OUT THE
WORD "MOM."
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Reporter: FOR NANCY, THESE
ARE SIGNS HER DAUGHTER WANTS TO
LIVE.
>> I CANNOT PULL THE PLUG ON
SOMEBODY LIKE THAT, WHO
EXPRESSES THE FACT THAT THEY'RE
NOT READY TO GIVE IT UP.
>> Reporter: DR. WARM HAS DONE A
LOT OF READING ABOUT GRIEF SINCE
HE STARTED WORKING AT VILLA
CORONADO.
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND WHY SOME
PEOPLE ARE UNABLE TO LET GO.
HE BELIEVES THEY GRIEVE IN THE
SAME WAY AS SOMEONE IN SEARCH OF
A MISSING PERSON.
>> HERE THEY SIT WITH THE MORAL
OBLIGATION TO BRING THEIR FAMILY
MEMBER BACK AND THOUGH I MIGHT
SAY THE HOPE OF THEIR RETURN IS
EXTREMELY LOW, THEY CAN'T LET GO
OF THAT EXTREMELY LOW
PROBABILITY.
>> Reporter: FOR STEVE SIMMONS,
ITS BEEN A FOUR YEAR VIGIL THAT
AT TIMES HAS DRIVEN HIM TO THE
BRINK.
LIKE WHEN HIS WIFE'S FEEDING
TUBE WAS CLOGGED FOR THE FIFTH
TIME.
AND STAFF HAD TO PUT A TUBE DOWN
HER NOSE TO FEED HER.
HE COULDN'T BEAR TO WATCH.
>> I SAID, "ONE OF THESE DAYS,
ONE OF THESE DAYS," IT'S
TERRIBLE WHAT I SAID, BUT I
SAID, "ONE OF THESE DAYS, I'M
GOING TO BRING A SHOTGUN IN
HERE."
AND WHAT I REALLY MEANT WAS, I'M
GOING TO COME IN HERE AND BLOW
MY BRAINS OUT IN FRONT OF ALL OF
YOU.
BECAUSE I CAN'T ENDURE ANY MORE
OF THIS."
>> Reporter: RAFAELA HAS MADE
SMALL IMPROVEMENTS IN THE PAST
YEAR, SHE IS ABLE TO SOMETIMES
SQUEEZE STEVE'S HAND OR GRASP A
BALL.
DR. WARM CONTINUES TO TELL STEVE
THAT RAFAELA HAS LITTLE CHANCE
OF RECOVERING.
BUT TO STEVE, THESE SMALL
GESTURES ARE AFFIRMATION HE'S
MADE THE RIGHT DECISION TO KEEP
HIS WIFE ALIVE.
>> I REALLY BELIEVE THAT IF MY
WIFE COULD ANSWER: DO YOU WANT
TO STAY ALIVE, OR DO YOU WANT TO
DIE?
I BELIEVE THAT SHE WOULD SAY
THAT SHE WANTS TO STAY ALIVE.
I BELIEVE THAT.
>> Reporter: WHAT WOULD YOU WANT
IF IT WAS YOU?
>> IF IT WERE ME I'D WANT TO GO.
I'D WANT TO GO.
I WISH IT WERE ME, I WISH IT
WERE ME.
I WISH IT WERE ME.
I ASKED FOR THAT SO MANY TIMES.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY, THE
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
ANNOUNCED THE FIRST CASE OF
EBOLA DIAGNOSED IN THE U.S.
THE PATIENT IS NOW IN AN
ISOLATION WARD AT A DALLAS
HOSPITAL.
AND THE "WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTED THAT A PRIVATE GUARD
WITH A GUN AND A RECORD OF
ASSAULT AND BATTERY GOT ON AN
ELEVATOR WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA
TWO WEEKS AGO.
THE DISCLOSURE CAME AFTER A
HOUSE COMMITTEE GRILLED THE HEAD
OF THE SECRET SERVICE.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, ARTIST WENDY SMITH WOOD,
LIVING OFF THE GRID HAS ITS
PERKS.
SHE GETS TO LIVE AMID THE
STUNNING BEAUTY OF THE ALASKAN
WILDERNESS AND IT'S 75 MILES
AWAY FROM THE NEAREST VILLAGE.
IT'S ALL SERVED AS INSPIRATION
FOR HER WORK, "SILK THAT SHE
DYES IN THE GLOWING RIVERS OF
GLACIAL MUD."
SEE HOW SHE DOES THAT ONLINE AT
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT
BUDDY CIANCI'S BID TO COME BACK
AS MAYOR OF PROVIDENCE, RHODE
ISLAND, AFTER SPENDING TIME IN
PRISON.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.